[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: The first bit of
the silence is to omit needless names and
the way we're going to do that is, like
I said, is through the separations and
recognitions.
So this is maybe a little small, I can
zoom in at time, so we can see it but
this is an example of
the first type of separation.
You'll be seeing these a lot.
So the first separation we can do is to
think to ourselves we have functions and
we would like to separate the things
the function is acting on.
Its inputs from just random
things in the environment,
like if your function wants to,
you can go ask for things.
It can just go out there and
from the signature, from the arguments,
it's not really apparent what it uses.
It would be really cool if as we'll see
what it uses is it because it is explicit.
So here we have two functions,
the one on the left is days, this month.
So it does some day calculations, it
just tells you how many days in a month.
But it has a secret input,
which is time itself, which is kind
of weird way to think about it.
Like if you varies like Ruby libraries
they have a thing called timecops.
So if you wanna write a test to make that
test reproducible on a function that
works with time.
You have to like fake out the system
timer, just kidding, it's a year ago.
I run my code, I hope it works.
Instead of making it really explicit,
like this one on the right always
works the same days in the month.
Because you just give it
the year in the month.
So this is our first going to be
our first coding experience, so
you don't have to listen to me.
We can go to jsbin/yoyip and
when you first go there
don't worry it's going
to be totally blank.
But it's all right that's
just the way it works.
So I'm going to make this the smaller,
like close my mail and stuff.
So here's how it looks blank scary but
if you hover over the upper right,
it says Edit, see Edit in JS Bin.
Now JS Bin has a lot of things we can look
at but for the purposes of what we're
doing, we should just be seeing
the JavaScript and the Console.
>> Joe Nelson: It's kind
of wrapping a little bit,
I'll zoom in a little later
after I read the comments.
So there's some tests in this file and
when you press the Run button,
it's actually going to say
the tests are passing.
But that's just because this test is
going to ask you to uncomment a line and
when uncomment it as you'll see,
it's going to break.
So just the gist of it and
then I'll let you read it.
Is that we want to try
showing how a function,
which very clearly separates its
inputs and acts, like reliably,
on those inputs is really easy to
test compared to one that doesn't.
So we have it in the file right now is
a way to test that days this month thing,
so this code as normally as it is.
I think the point of this
exercise is just to look at how
we're testing the complicated one,
they're like we don't have to that.
So it'll be your job to write the test for
the nice one,
which is days in month at the bottom
of the file, so here's the structure.
The top kind of gives you
an overview of what's going on.
>> Joe Nelson: And
then there's something you have to do,
and then there's background code and
you can look at it if you like as needed.
Some of it's just boilerplate that's going
to make the stuff run, so give it a try.
Try and read through the file and
just shout out any questions.
>> Speaker 2: Adam is asking
what you do with the code.
>> Speaker 3: There's a line down
the console right in the middle.
Yeah, right in the middle
it says insert equal and
it's pointing it out it's alt.testpass.
Just to play around with that thing.
>> Speaker 2: It's really just to get a
feel for JS then and play around with it.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, that's mostly,
we're gonna be using this thing again.
Some of the new exercises or
the later exercises will be more
involved with test or fail.
But this one is this line here,
assert equal days in month equals,
we take this out.
>> Joe Nelson: And the point is just to
fill these values in so that it passes.
I mean ultimately it's just to say
the way we would test daysInMonth is as
easy as saying assert that a certain
month and year is a certain value.
We don't have to, like,
mock things the way we did above.
>> Speaker 2: So,
if I assert 2014 March 31.
Says, UNCOD expected 30.95 then
a whole bunch of numbers to equal 31,
that's not rounding?
>> Joe Nelson: So my own limitations,
there will be extra credit to fix that.
But we could just pick
a different month I guess.
>> Speaker 4: Which
assertion library is this?
Just curious.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, we're just really,
stupid, simple.
[CROSSTALK] It's my one function library.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: There we go.
>> Joe Nelson: It's called one search.
>> Speaker 4: I'm good.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: So it's all it's
all everything that we're running
is in this box.
>> Joe Nelson: Pretty much except for
the stuff.
Wait maybe maybe this one but another
ones who are going to put some libraries.
>> Speaker 2: Requires that
you'll see a couple little.
>> Joe Nelson: Ok this one's pretty basic.
>> Speaker 4: So there's nothing
hidden other than what we see here.
There's an HTML, the JavaScript.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah,
later ones will include other libraries
using if you open the HTML you'll see I'm
just pulling in the screen kind of just
how is everybody feeling
in the room about this one.
>> Speaker 3: Do you guys understand Js
has been enough to like play around with
it on is there something
we get from anybody?
>> Joe Nelson: I guess if you tell
the point were you run it and
you're getting some kind of air because
you're feeling something at least it's
like yeah I kind of feel a lot
of feel stuff and [INAUDIBLE]
Okay.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay.
[INAUDIBLE]
Okay, so
that's the first kind of separation.
There's gonna be a lot more.
>> Speaker 2: Did you want to
walk through the solution?
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
That's a good idea.
>> [BLANK AUDIO].
>> Joe Nelson: So my solution,
for the way I was thinking of it,
was in order to test this thing,
we have to fill in some kind of value.
So 2014, Let's not use the one that
made it round inappropriately.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
One instead of three.
>> Joe Nelson: If you like one
like thirty days had September, so
it's 31 to be much easier for
the patient to take that stuff.
>> Speaker 2: in a mile an hour
with a line calling from A to B.
>> Joe Nelson: So, it's fast it's just
make sure the tests are 29 take of.
So to test things that make that
behavior predictably arguments
you just pass arguments of your choice.
To test things that have secret inputs,
you have to mark out
the secret inputs in some way.
So you can like know what's happening
inside function to a greater degree.
>> Speaker 2: It's also worth it to
mention that this one's probably way more
likely to work both on the server and the
client and other JavaScript environments.
Rather than one rooted in specific
secret input environment.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: There's a request for
you to speak up a little bit
from you know [INAUDIBLE]
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah as Brian was saying.
If you make your inputs more explicit
not only is it easier to test.
But as the next few slides will show you
there are other benefits such as it's more
likely to run in other places.
So you can share your code
easier between the server and
the client To the extent
that you can even if
you're trying to use like a location
in the window or you just got a lock.
You just don't have it but for
other things it's better like time,
this would work anyway.